Recurring API
PayHere Recurring API lets you accept recurring payments from your customers so that the customer has to enter the card credentials only once & then his/her card will be automatically charged as per a time period you set & authorized by the customer.

It's a simple HTML Form based POST API (similar to PayHere Checkout API) which initiate a recurring payment request and redirect your customers to PayHere Payment Gateway to securely process & authorize the recurring payment. Once the first payment is processed & recurring payment is authorized, it notifies your given URL (notify_url) about the payment status with a checksum to verify, everytime your customer's card is charged. You can use those response parameters & checksum to verify and update your system, based on the payment status.


Prerequisites
You need the following things ready to integrate your website with PayHere Recurring API.

Merchant ID
You can find your Merchant ID from Side Menu > Integrations of your PayHere Account.
Merchant Secret
You can generate a Merchant Secret for your domain/app by following below steps.
Go to Side Menu > Integrations section of your PayHere Account
Click 'Add Domain/App' > Enter your top level domain or App package name > Click 'Request to Allow'
Wait for the approval for your domain/app (This will take up to 24 hours)
Copy the Merchant Secret shown in front of your domain/app
Attention: Please note that Merchant ID is unique to your PayHere account, but Merchant Secret is specific to your integrating domain/app. Therefore, you need to add your new domains/apps & get a new Merchant Secret every time you're integrating PayHere on a new domain/app.


Integration
You need to complete the following 3 steps in order to fully integrate your website with PayHere Recurring API.


1. Redirecting Customer to PayHere Payment Gateway
Regardless of your scripting language, you can simply use an HTML Form to submit the below POST params to PayHere Payment Gateway. When the form is submitted, your customer will be securely redirected to the PayHere Payment Gateway & the customer can then enter the credentials (Card No) & securely process the payment there.


Action URL
Live    - https://www.payhere.lk/pay/checkout
Sandbox - https://sandbox.payhere.lk/pay/checkout

Required POST Parameters
merchant_id - PayHere Merchant ID
return_url - URL to redirect users when success
cancel_url - URL to redirect users when cancelled
notify_url - URL to callback the status of the payment
first_name - Customer’s First Name
last_name - Customer’s Last Name
email - Customer’s Email (Must be a valid email format)
phone - Customer’s Phone No (Must be a valid phone number)
address - Customer’s Address Line1 + Line2
city - Customer’s City
country - Customer’s Country
order_id - Order ID generated by the merchant
items - Item title or Order/Invoice number
currency - Currency Code (LKR/USD)
recurrence - Recurring Period (A number & a word separated by a space such as 2 Week, 1 Month, 6 Month, 1 Year, etc. Word can be ‘Week’, ‘Month’ or ‘Year’ in singular. Number can be any to define recurrent period with word.)
duration - Duration to charge ('Forever' if there's no time limitation. Otherwise a Number & a word separated by a space as 1 Month, 1 Year, 3 Year, ect. Word can be ‘Week’, ‘Month’, ‘Year’. Number should be compatible with the word in recurrence.)
amount - Total Payment Amount (eg. 1000.00)
hash - Generated hash value as mentioned below (*Required from 2023-01-16)

Generating 'hash' Value
You can generate the hash value using the merchant_id, order_id, amount, currency and the merchant_secret.


hash = to_upper_case(md5(merchant_id + order_id + amount + currency + to_upper_case(md5(merchant_secret))))
PHP Code sample for generating hash value:

$hash = strtoupper(
    md5(
        $merchant_id . 
        $order_id . 
        number_format($amount, 2, '.', '') . 
        $currency .  
        strtoupper(md5($merchant_secret)) 
    ) 
);
Attention: Please note that the hash parameter should not be generated in client-side since it will expose your merchant_secret.


Optional POST Parameters

delivery_address - Delivery Address Line1 + Line2
delivery_city - Delivery City
delivery_country - Delivery Country
item_name_1 - Name of Item 1
item_number_1 - Model number of Item 1
amount_1 - Unit amount of Item 1
quantity_1 - Quantity of Item 1
item_name_2 - Name of Item 2
item_number_2 - Model number of Item 2
amount_2 - Unit amount of Item 2
quantity_2 - Quantity of Item 2
(You can list rest of the items also like this)
platform - Referring Platform
custom_1 - Custom param 1 set by merchant
custom_2 - Custom param 2 set by merchant
startup_fee - Additional fee or discount in 1st payment occurance

Code Sample
<html>
<body>
<form method="post" action="https://sandbox.payhere.lk/pay/checkout">   
    <input type="hidden" name="merchant_id" value="121XXXX">    <!-- Replace your Merchant ID -->
    <input type="hidden" name="return_url" value="http://sample.com/return">
    <input type="hidden" name="cancel_url" value="http://sample.com/cancel">
    <input type="hidden" name="notify_url" value="http://sample.com/notify">  
    <br><br>Item Details<br>
    <input type="text" name="order_id" value="ItemNo12345">
    <input type="text" name="items" value="Door bell wireless"><br>
    <input type="text" name="currency" value="LKR">
    <input type="text" name="recurrence" value="1 Month">
    <input type="text" name="duration" value="Forever">
    <input type="text" name="amount" value="1000">  
    <br><br>Customer Details<br>
    <input type="text" name="first_name" value="Saman">
    <input type="text" name="last_name" value="Perera"><br>
    <input type="text" name="email" value="samanp@gmail.com">
    <input type="text" name="phone" value="0771234567"><br>
    <input type="text" name="address" value="No.1, Galle Road">
    <input type="text" name="city" value="Colombo">
    <input type="hidden" name="country" value="Sri Lanka">
    <input type="hidden" name="hash" value="098F6BCD4621D373CADE4E832627B4F6">    <!-- Replace with generated hash -->
    <input type="submit" value="Buy Now">   
</form> 
</body>
</html>

2. Listening to Payment Notification
As soon as the payment is processed, PayHere notifies the payment status to the notify_url you posted to the Checkout API as a server callback & redirects the customer back to your website to the return_url. Payment notification will contain the following data as POST params, so you need to host a script on your notify_url to fetch the following POST params & update your database accordingly.

POST params
merchant_id - PayHere Merchant ID of the merchant
order_id - Order ID sent by Merchant to Checkout page
payment_id - Unique Payment ID generated by PayHere for the processed payment
subscription_id - Unique Subscription ID generated by PayHere for the authorized subscription
payhere_amount - Total Amount of the payment
payhere_currency - Currency code of the payment (LKR/USD)
status_code - Payment status code (2, 0, -1, -2, -3)
md5sig - Encrypted signature to verify the payment
custom_1 - Custom param 1 sent by merchant to Checkout page
custom_2 - Custom param 2 sent by merchant to Checkout page
method - Payment method selected by the customer. (VISA, MASTER)
status_message - Message received from payment gateway which the customer tried to pay
recurring - Whether payment is a recurring payment (1:recurring, 0: not-recurring)
message_type - Status message (AUTHORIZATION_SUCCESS, AUTHORIZATION_FAILED, RECURRING_INSTALLMENT_SUCCESS, RECURRING_INSTALLMENT_FAILED, RECURRING_COMPLETE, RECURRING_STOPPED)
item_recurrence - How often it charges. eg. 1 Month
item_duration - How long it charges. eg. 1 Year
item_rec_status - Status of recurring subscription. (0: active, -1: cancelled, 1: completed)
item_rec_date_next - Date of next recurring installment (YYYY-MM-DD)
item_rec_install_paid - Number of successful recurring installments charged

If the customer made the payment by VISA or MASTER credit/debit card, following parameters will also be available.
card_holder_name - Card Holder Name
card_no - Masked card number (Ex: ************4564)
card_expiry - Card expiry in format MMYY (Ex: 0122)
Payment Status Codes

2 - success
0 - pending
-1 - canceled
-2 - failed
-3 - chargedback
Attention:

You cannot test the payment notification by print/echo methods since notify_url never loads to the browser as it's a server callback. You can only test it by updating your database upon fetching the notification.
You cannot test the payment notification on localhost. You need to submit a publically accessible IP or domain based URL as your notify_url for PayHere to directly notify your server.
No payment status parameters are passed to the return_url when redirecting the customer back to your website. You need to update your database upon fetching payment status by your script on notify_url & then show the payment status to your customer in the page on return_url by fetching the status from your database.
The request parameters are encoded in the 'application/x-www-form-urlencoded' format, not 'application/json'.

3. Verifying the Payment Status
It is critical to verify the Payment Notification before taking any actions on the payment response. You can do the verification using the md5sig checksum parameter that is generated & sent by PayHere along with the payment status params according to following logic.

md5sig = strtoupper(
    md5 (
        merchant_id + 
        order_id + 
        payhere_amount + 
        payhere_currency + 
        status_code + 
        strtoupper(md5(merchant_secret)) 
    ) 
)
Once you receive the payment status parameters from PayHere, you can locally generate this checksum using the merchant_id, order_id, payhere_amount, payhere_currency & status_code sent by the payment notification and the merchant_secret you have locally. Your locally generated checksum should be equal to the md5sig sent by PayHere if the payment notification is valid.


Code Sample (PHP)
You can host this script at your notify_url.

<?php

$merchant_id        = $_POST['merchant_id'];
$order_id           = $_POST['order_id'];
$payhere_amount     = $_POST['payhere_amount'];
$payhere_currency   = $_POST['payhere_currency'];
$status_code        = $_POST['status_code'];
$md5sig             = $_POST['md5sig'];

$merchant_secret = 'XXXXXXXXXXXXX'; // Replace with your Merchant Secret

$local_md5sig = strtoupper(
    md5(
        $merchant_id . 
        $order_id . 
        $payhere_amount . 
        $payhere_currency . 
        $status_code . 
        strtoupper(md5($merchant_secret)) 
    ) 
);
       
if (($local_md5sig === $md5sig) AND ($status_code == 2) ){
        //TODO: Update your database as payment success
}

?>
Attention:

Please make sure to consider the payment as successful only after the verfification, as it ensures that the payment notification received to your notify_url was genuinely initiated by PayHere, not by any other party.
If you do not implement this payment verification properly, there's a security risk of a third party sending a manipulated payment notification to your notify_url, falsly notifing that the payment is successful.
Still need help? Get in touch!Last updated on 22nd Dec 2025